Add idempotence/retry behavior to ILP-over-HTTP (#567)
interledger/rfcs: 0035-ilp-over-http/0035-ilp-over-http.md

In an ILP Over HTTP connection, both peers run HTTP servers with accessible HTTPS endpoints. When peering, the peers exchange their respective URLs, authentication tokens or TLS certificates, ILP addresses, and settlement-related details.

> Each ILP Prepare packet is sent as the body of an HTTP request to the peer's server endpoint. ILP Fulfill or Reject packets are returned as the body of the HTTP response in the synchronous mode, or sent in a separate HTTP request in the asynchronous mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each ILP Prepare packet is sent as the body of an HTTP request to the peer's server endpoint. ILP Fulfill or Reject packets are returned as the body of the HTTP response in synchronous mode, or sent in a separate HTTP request in asynchronous mode.
```

### Send ILP Prepare

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: example.com
Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Request-Id: 42ee09c8-a6de-4ae3-8a47-4732b0cbb07b
Idempotency-Key: 8988dd17-55e4-40e0-9c57-419d81a0e3a5

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Prepare Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type / Accept Headers** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.
- **Request Id Header** &mdash; _Optional_. UUIDv4 to correlate the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject.

> - **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; _Optional_. UUIDv4 to uniquely identify this packet.

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify with "uniquely identify this Prepare packet"

Author: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR48

Peers MAY use any standard HTTP authentication mechanism to authenticate incoming requests. TLS Client Certificates are RECOMMENDED between peers for security and performance, though bearer tokens such as JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) or Macaroons MAY be used instead. Basic authentication (username and password) is NOT RECOMMENDED, because of the additional delay introduced by securely hashing the password.

### ILP Prepare

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: example.com
Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Idempotency-Key: 8988dd17-55e4-40e0-9c57-419d81a0e3a5

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Prepare Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type / Accept Headers** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.

> - **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; Globally unique string identifying this request, which MUST be derived from a cryptographically secure source of randomness.

Reviewer: Let be prescriptive and just say it needs to be UUID v4

- **Body** &mdash; ILP Packet encoded using OER, as specified in [RFC 27: Interledger Protocol V4](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4.md).

#### Response

```http
HTTP/x.x 200 OK
```

> For backwards compatibility with [RFC 35: ILP over HTTP (draft 2)](https://interledger.org/rfcs/0035-ilp-over-http/draft-2.html), if no `Idempotency-Key` header is included, the raw OER-encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject MUST be returned within the body of the response:

Reviewer 3: Would the previous method be supported forever or would the intention be to deprecate it in the future?

Author: While I don't think anyone would want to use the old version in production, there are a couple advantages to it:
1. Much easier for manual debugging
2. Doesn't require a publicly accessible endpoint to send outgoing packets

I'm indifferent, since (1) could be addressed by adding an admin endpoint to the node that makes it easier to send packets for debugging, and (2) might be best addressed using BTP or a WebSocket-based transport.

Should the old method eventually be deprecated?

Reviewer 2: 2) is something that we may consider in Coil's use case, where you have clients who only want to send packets. We use BTP right now which is OK but switching to HTTP could save on some connection logic. That said there's really no disadvantage to using nonstandard ILP HTTP when we have to so it's OK if this doesn't cover every use case for everyone

Reviewer 4: I echo Ben's sentiment - I think we want to allow for ILP-over-HTTP to be used by a non-server in a "send-only" mode (e.g., a mobile app). I added a proposed change.

Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Request-Id: 42ee09c8-a6de-4ae3-8a47-4732b0cbb07b
Idempotency-Key: 8988dd17-55e4-40e0-9c57-419d81a0e3a5

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Prepare Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type / Accept Headers** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.
- **Request ID Header** &mdash; UUIDv4 to correlate the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject with this ILP Prepare, generated from a cryptographically secure source of randomness.
- **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; UUIDv4 to uniquely identify this packet, generated from a cryptographically secure source of randomness.
- **Body** &mdash; ILP Packet encoded using OER, as specified in [RFC 27: Interledger Protocol V4](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4.md).

#### Response

```http
HTTP/x.x 200 OK
```

> For backwards compatibility with [RFC 35: ILP over HTTP (draft 2)](https://interledger.org/rfcs/0035-ilp-over-http/draft-2.html), if no `Idempotency-Key` header is included, the raw OER-encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject MUST be returned within the body of the response:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If no `Idempotency-Key` header is included in the HTTP request, then the raw OER-encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject MUST be returned within the body of the response:
```

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: bob.example
Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Prefer: respond-async
Callback-Url: https://alice.example/incoming/ilp
Request-Id: 42ee09c8-a6de-4ae3-8a47-4732b0cbb07b

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Prepare Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the request is sent to.
- **Content-Type / Accept Headers** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.
- **Body** &mdash; ILP Prepare encoded using OER, as specified in [RFC 27: Interledger Protocol V4](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4.md).

Asynchronous mode uses these additional headers:

- **Prefer** &mdash; MUST be set to `respond-async`. If omitted, the reply behavior defaults to synchronous mode.
- **Callback URL Header** &mdash; _Optional_. Callback URL of the origin connector to send an asynchronous HTTP request with the ILP Fulfill/Reject.

> - **Request Id Header** &mdash; _Optional_. UUIDv4 to uniquely identify this ILP Prepare, and correlate the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject.

Reviewer 5: These aren't `Optional` in async mode, right?

Author: Thanks. Changed `Request-Id` so it's required, but keeping the `Callback-Url` as optional so peers can still use other mechanisms to set/exchange the callback URL.

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

If the request included a `Request-Id` header, the recipient handling the ILP Prepare SHOULD choose to handle the packet asynchronously and return the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject in a separate outgoing HTTP request.

In the asynchronous mode, if the request is semantically valid, the recipient MUST respond immediately that the ILP Prepare is accepted for processing, even if the packet will ultimately be rejected:

```http
HTTP/x.x 202 Accepted
```

#### Retry Behavior

> Two peers MAY retry ILP Prepare packets, but MUST both agree to support retries out-of-band to prevent duplicate side effects.

Reviewer 2: In what situation are side effects possible?

Author: Added explanation of why both peers must support it/bad side effects, and why it's useful: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR72

> If the recipient of the ILP Prepare responds with an `5xx` or `409 Conflict` status, or no HTTP response is received within a given timeout, the sender of the ILP Prepare SHOULD retry sending the packet with the same idempotency key.

Reviewer 2: nit: an `5xx` -> a `5xx`

Author: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR74

> The sender MUST conclude retrying after receiving a response with a `2xx` status, `4xx` error, or receiving the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject packet.

Reviewer 2: `4xx` error other than `409`. also what does the 409 conflict signify in this flow? It seems to have special meaning but is not fully explained

Author: Eh, maybe I should just remove retrying on `409`? (Stripe uses `409` for idempotent retries, but I'm not sure it matters)

Author: Removed retrying on `409`: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR74

> The sender SHOULD ensure there are multiple attempts to deliver the packet to the peer before the ILP Prepare expires.

Reviewer 2: It seems like if a Prepare fails there's really nothing lost so it'd be best to fast-fail and let the sender retry if they so choose. That keeps packets faster, rathing than having everyone implement their own retry logic that might be waiting some timeout to retry the packet, slowing everyone down.

The only reason I see to not fast fail would be if there's a risk that a 5xx came back but the packet was actually passed on. But if you treated the 5xx as a reject and didn't honor a fulfill that came after it then that wouldn't really matter.

Author: > > The sender SHOULD ensure there are multiple attempts to deliver the packet to the peer before the ILP Prepare expires.

> It seems like if a Prepare fails there's really nothing lost so it'd be best to fast-fail and let the sender retry if they so choose.

If Bob's Prepare packet is temporarily interrupted in transit and doesn't reach Charlie, retrying at the link layer allows much quicker recovery. To Bob, this would appear as a network error, but they can't safely return a reject right then because it's possible Charlie received the packet and it'll ultimately get fulfilled (if Charlie's response was interrupted in transit, but Bob doesn't know). Currently:

1) All previous nodes in the path have to wait the entire timeout before the hold on the balance is released, which slows down the payment and prevents re-allocating that liquidity
2) Afterward, the original sender of the Prepare has to wait for the Reject to percolate all the way back before retrying (e.g. assuming the number of packets in flight is capped), which may increase the time to complete the payment

None of this is imperative, so it's an optional feature that two peers can choose to implement or enable.

### Async ILP Fulfill/Reject Reply

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Request-Id: 42ee09c8-a6de-4ae3-8a47-4732b0cbb07b
Idempotency-Key: 6ff99499-008e-4499-8644-048450627496

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type Header** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.
- **Request Id Header** &mdash; Request ID from the corresponding ILP Prepare, which is a UUIDv4.

> - **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; _Optional_. UUIDv4 to uniquely identify this packet.

Reviewer 2: could clarify with "Uniquely identify this Fulfill/Reject packet"

Author: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR99

#### Response

```http
HTTP/x.x 200 OK
```

If the request ID doesn't correspond to an in-flight ILP Prepare, the connector should ignore it and return an error:

```http
HTTP/x.x 400 Bad Request
```

#### Retry Behavior

If the recipient of the ILP Fulfill/Reject responds with an `5xx` or `409 Conflict` status, or no HTTP response is received within a given timeout, the sender of the ILP Fulfill/Reject SHOULD retry sending the packet with the same idempotency key.

The sender of the ILP Fulfill/Reject MUST conclude retrying after receiving a response with a `2xx` status or `4xx` error.

The sender SHOULD ensure there are multiple attempts to deliver the reply packet to the peer before the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

### Idempotence

Every Interledger packet corresponds to a transaction that may affect financial accounting balances. If a request fails, such as due to a network connection error, retrying ILP requests and responses with [idempotence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence) can prevent balance inconsistencies between peers.

> When a connector begins processing an incoming packet with an idempotency key it has not already tracked, it MUST persist that key. If a subsequent request of the same type (ILP Prepare, or ILP Fulfill/Reject) is encountered with the same idempotency key, the packet should be ignored, and the connector should respond with the successful status. For safety, the connector MUST persist each idempotency key until some amount of time after the corresponding ILP Prepare expires so it doesn't accidentally process a duplicate ILP Prepare packet.

Reviewer 2: if we want to make this nonbreaking we should clarify that idempotence is a feature of asynchronous mode only. If we want to make it nonbreaking and also add idempotence to synchronous mode then we should have a response code/header of some kind that makes it clear the idempotency key will be honored

Author: Since ILP Prepare retries must be negotiated out of band, isn't this still non-breaking? If the peers don't retry ILP Prepares, the recipient of the ILP Prepare doesn't need to handle idempotent requests. Can I clarify that better?

Author: Added an explanation here that hopefully better clarifies this: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/09916ea8c1232f846610940066298f052f140c8f...8b43dafce2c84d073bc70afacf396f700d4ff8f5#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR126-R132

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

> If the request included a `Request-Id` header, the recipient handling the ILP Prepare SHOULD choose to handle the packet asynchronously and return the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject in a separate outgoing HTTP request.

Reviewer 4: Thanks @kincaidoneil for pushing the PR forward - overall I like the proposal.

Are we sure we want to vary the behavior of the server based upon the presence of the `Request-Id` header? I'm not aware of any standard around doing such a thing, but this RFC seems like a good start: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7240#section-4.1

That said, some alternatives for varying the response would be:

* Use a different URL prefix (e.g., `/ilp` vs `/ilp-async`)
* Use a different Media Type (`application/ilpv4-async` or `application/ilp-over-http-async`) or something like that.

The primary reason I bring this up is that it might be useful for an ILP-over-HTTP sync request/response that wants to use idempotence to _also_ use both the requestId and the `Idempotence Key` without triggering async behavior, (e.g., for logging or audit purposes).

Author: I'd be in favor of `Prefer: respond-async`

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

### ILP Fulfill/Reject

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Idempotency-Key: 8988dd17-55e4-40e0-9c57-419d81a0e3a5

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type Header** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.

> - **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; Same idempotency key used in the corresponding ILP Prepare.

Reviewer 3: I'm not an expert on the use of idempotency keys, but this seems like it's overloading the same ID with both the idempotency behavior and a way to correlate a given request/response.

Is it better to:
- Have separate IDs for idempotency keys and request/response correlation
- Have one ID and call it the `Idempotency-Key`
- Have one ID and call it the `Request-Id`

Reviewer: I tend to agree with this.

Request-ID should be the request-response matching that is generated from the initial `POST` request. Idempotency key will be unique for each leg

Author: > Request-ID should be the request-response matching that is generated from the initial POST request

If they're not randomly generated, what if two peers send incoming packets with colliding request IDs that a node routes to the same peer?

Should the `Request-Id` be a u32 to stay consistent across BTP hops as well?

Reviewer: Like I mentioned below. Lets just be normative here and say it must be a UUID v4. Is there any reason we don't just make that the requirement?

Author: Making UUIDv4 normative sounds fine. Separately, are you saying the request ID should remain the same across hops? If so, how should collisions be handled?

Reviewer: Nope request-id is local between two nodes. It is used for the async request-response matching of a single leg and would be the SAME for a single request-response. The Idempotency key then would be unique for the request AND response.

Author: Cool, gotcha 👍

Author: Separated into two headers and prescribe UUIDv4: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/060732f4f52f286c020c9ebf085b453e91e51951...f4fc0020d82b46b6fdfde537a8f251906d95120c#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR47-R48

- **Body** &mdash; ILP Packet encoded using OER, as specified in [RFC 27: Interledger Protocol V4](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4.md).

#### Response

```http
HTTP/x.x 200 OK
```

### Error Handling

All semantically valid requests accepted for processing MUST be returned with the HTTP status code `200 OK`, even if the packet is ultimately rejected.

An endpoint MAY return standard HTTP errors, including but not limited to: a malformed or unauthenticated request, rate limiting, or an unresponsive upstream service. Connectors SHOULD relay an ILP Reject packet back to the original sender with an appropriate [Final or Temporary error code](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4#error-codes). Server errors (status codes 500-599) SHOULD be translated into ILP Reject packets with `T00: Temporary Error` codes.

> ### Idempotence Behavior

Reviewer 3: What happens if a `Fulfill` packet is submitted with an idempotency key that the node on the receiving end of that request doesn't have a record for?

Author: Added a note that a node should return a `400` in this case: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/060732f4f52f286c020c9ebf085b453e91e51951...f4fc0020d82b46b6fdfde537a8f251906d95120c#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR94-R99

Every Interledger packet corresponds to a transaction that may affect financial accounting balances. If a request fails, such as due to a network connection error, retrying ILP requests and responses with [idempotence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence) can prevent balance inconsistencies between peers.

To enable this functionality, the two phases of an ILP packet lifecycle are separated into two different HTTP requests: one for the ILP Prepare, and one for the corresponding ILP Fulfill or ILP Reject.

Responses with an HTTP `200 OK` status attest that the packet has been successfully accepted for processing, even if the packet may not necessarily be forwarded. If the connector responds with an HTTP `5xx` or `409 Conflict` status, the client SHOULD retry the request with the same idempotency key.

If no HTTP response is received within a given timeout, clients should retry sending the packet with the same idempotency key. Clients SHOULD ensure there are multiple attempts to deliver the packet to the peer before the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

> When a connector begins processing an incoming ILP Prepare with an idempotency key it has not already tracked, it MUST persist that key. If a subsequent request is encountered with the same idempotency key, the packet should be ignored, and the connector should respond with the same `200 OK` status. For safety, the connector MUST persist each idempotency key until the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

Reviewer 3: > For safety, the connector MUST persist each idempotency key until the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

@aanchal4 may have some thoughts about removing the records as soon as the packet expires

Author: Should nodes wait some additional constant before removing the key to account for network latency + clock skew between peers? (If the Prepare was retried at the last possible moment before it expired on the sending node, but the idempotency key was already deleted on the recipient so the Prepare was processed a second time)

Author: Updated with David's suggestion [here](https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/567#discussion_r359651531), feel free to re-open if that's insufficient.

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

> If the request included a `Callback-Url` header and `Request-Id` header, the recipient handling the ILP Prepare SHOULD choose to handle the packet asynchronously and return the corresponding ILP Fulfill/Reject in a separate outgoing HTTP request.

Reviewer 4: I'd like to use a more overt signal for "async-mode", such as what we discussed [in this comment](https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/pull/567#discussion_r376088183).

My rationale is mainly to allow this RFC to be extended later (after this proposal is committed) with other, non-callback-based styles of async communication (e.g., sender polling w\ batch responses). 

Any objection to including a 3rd `prefer:` header as the normatively required field to indicate sync vs async so  we don't have to assume `sync` in the absence of a `Callback-Url` header?

Author: I added the `Prefer: respond-async` header to specify asynchronous mode. I'd just note, sync is still assumed in the absence of a `Prefer` header

Reviewer 4: Sounds great!

> In the asynchronous mode, if the request is semantically valid, the recipient MUST respond immediately that the ILP Prepare is accepted for processing, even if the packet will ultimately be rejected:

Reviewer 2: Is it a problem that until the response comes back the sender doesn't know whether asynchronous mode is being used? If it takes a couple seconds the connector isn't sure whether it's taking a long time to ACK or whether it's waiting for a fulfill/reject. I can't think of any concrete case where that's a problem but it seems slightly odd

Author: If the request is still pending but just taking a long time, no behavior changes since it's unsafe for any sender to retry (until we add idempotent Prepare retries).

Today, if a request is sent but then the connection is terminated, the sender immediately treats the packet as rejected. If the sender supports async, they must wait the full timeout even if the connection is terminated, since they may receive an async response. Note that this only happens when the reply is dropped, so it's the failure scenario which gets slightly worse (if the sender supports async but recipient doesn't).

```http
HTTP/x.x 202 Accepted
```

### Async ILP Fulfill/Reject Reply

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x

> Host: example.com

Reviewer: Can we change these to reflect the `Callback-Url` used above for consistency.

Reviewer: It may also make sense to change the URL of the request and the reply to different domains so it's more obvious they are different parties

```

### ILP Fulfill/Reject

#### Request

```http
POST /ilp HTTP/x.x
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: Bearer zxcljvoizuu09wqqpowipoalksdflksjdgxclvkjl0s909asdf
Request-Id: 42ee09c8-a6de-4ae3-8a47-4732b0cbb07b
Idempotency-Key: 6ff99499-008e-4499-8644-048450627496

< Body: Binary OER-Encoded ILP Fulfill or Reject Packet >
```

- **Path** &mdash; A connector MAY specify any HTTP path for their peer to send ILP packets to.
- **Host Header** &mdash; The standard [HTTP Host Header](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.23) indicating the domain of the HTTP server the Request is sent to.
- **Content-Type Header** &mdash; MUST be set to `application/octet-stream`.
- **Request ID Header** &mdash; Request ID from the corresponding ILP Prepare, which is a UUIDv4.
- **Idempotency Key Header** &mdash; UUIDv4 to uniquely identify this packet, generated from a cryptographically secure source of randomness.
- **Body** &mdash; ILP Packet encoded using OER, as specified in [RFC 27: Interledger Protocol V4](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4.md).

#### Response

```http
HTTP/x.x 200 OK
```

> If the request ID doesn't correspond to an in-flight ILP Prepare, the connector should ignore it and return an error:

Reviewer 4: Why not just return an ILP Reject packet here?

Reviewer 4: Ah, well - I suppose my question makes sense if the spec support both Draft 2 and Draft3 at the same time. Makes less sense if only Draft3 is adopted.

### Error Handling

All semantically valid requests accepted for processing MUST be returned with the HTTP status code `200 OK`, even if the packet is ultimately rejected.

An endpoint MAY return standard HTTP errors, including but not limited to: a malformed or unauthenticated request, rate limiting, or an unresponsive upstream service. Connectors SHOULD relay an ILP Reject packet back to the original sender with an appropriate [Final or Temporary error code](./0027-interledger-protocol-4/0027-interledger-protocol-4#error-codes). Server errors (status codes 500-599) SHOULD be translated into ILP Reject packets with `T00: Temporary Error` codes.

### Idempotence Behavior

Every Interledger packet corresponds to a transaction that may affect financial accounting balances. If a request fails, such as due to a network connection error, retrying ILP requests and responses with [idempotence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence) can prevent balance inconsistencies between peers.

To enable this functionality, the two phases of an ILP packet lifecycle are separated into two different HTTP requests: one for the ILP Prepare, and one for the corresponding ILP Fulfill or ILP Reject.

> Responses with an HTTP `200 OK` status attest that the packet has been successfully accepted for processing, even if the packet may not necessarily be forwarded. If the connector responds with an HTTP `5xx` or `409 Conflict` status, the client SHOULD retry the request with the same idempotency key.

Reviewer 4: To support both ILP-over-HTTP modes, what if we use `200 OK` to indicate that there's a Fulfill/Reject packet in the response, and use a `202 Accepted` response to indicate the async-mode?

Author: Updated with 202 Accepted in the async mode: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/003ad42...09916ea#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR66-R68

If no HTTP response is received within a given timeout, clients SHOULD retry sending the packet with the same idempotency key. Clients SHOULD ensure there are multiple attempts to deliver the packet to the peer before the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

> **NOTE:** Clients MUST ensure their peer supports [RFC 35: ILP over HTTP](.) draft 3 or later before retrying ILP Prepare requests to prevent duplicate side effects.

Reviewer 4: Until there's broad consensus to deprecate Draft 2, I think this RFC should support both sync and async modes, or if there disagreement there, perhaps we should define this async behavior in a new specification.

> When a connector begins processing an incoming packet with an idempotency key it has not already tracked, it MUST persist that key. If a subsequent request of the same type (ILP Prepare, or ILP Fulfill/Reject) is encountered with the same idempotency key, the packet should be ignored, and the connector should respond with the same `200 OK` status. For safety, the connector MUST persist each idempotency key until the corresponding ILP Prepare expires.

Reviewer 4: One potential problem with this advice is a case where the sending Connector retries near the expiry. Due to timing irregularities, it's possible the receiving Connector might have discarded the idempotency key, and treat the packet as a new Prepare.

Perhaps a simple remedy here in the spec would be to make this advice more overt (e.g., "For safety, the connector MUST persist each idempotency key until some amount of time after the corresponding ILP Prepare expires such that it doesn't accidentally process a duplicate Prepare packet."

Author: Added this verbiage: https://github.com/interledger/rfcs/compare/003ad42...09916ea#diff-ccfda9b7df50a9cfd8618bb9c08e360aR126

> Since ILP Prepare expirations are typically on the order of seconds and the transport layer will handle flow control, exponential backoff and jitter for retries are unnecessary.

Reviewer 4: Which "transport" layer is this section referring to? The HTTP transport, or the STREAM tranport?

Author: STREAM/an end-to-end transport layer. If packets aren't getting through/timing out, STREAM *should* eventually back off in time.
